[TASK] Update f:form.select ViewHelper page (#128)
TYPO3-Documentation/TYPO3CMS-Reference-ViewHelper: Documentation/Global/Form/Select.rst

========================================

..  typo3:viewhelper:: form.select
    :source: /Global.json
    :display: tags,description,gitHubLink
    :noindex:

..  include:: /_Includes/_ExtbaseFormViewHelpers.rst.txt

..  contents:: Table of contents

..  _typo3-fluid-form-select-usage:

Select field with hardcoded options
===================================

Using the
:ref:`options <t3viewhelper:viewhelper-argument-typo3-cms-fluid-viewhelpers-form-selectviewhelper-options>`
parameter, you can pass a hardcoded array to the form.select ViewHelper.

The key of that array is used as option key, and the value is used as
human-readable name.

..  tabs::

    ..  group-tab:: Fluid

        ..  literalinclude:: _codesnippets/_SelectGender.html
            :caption: packages/my_extension/Resources/Private/Templates/User/GenderForm.html

    ..  group-tab:: Controller

>         The argument for will have the key of the chosen entry as value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        The argument will have the key of the chosen entry as value.
```

        ..  literalinclude:: _codesnippets/_SelectGender.php
            :caption: packages/my_extension/Classes/Controller/UserController.php

..  _typo3-fluid-form-select-usage-array:

Preselected field with options supplied by the controller
=========================================================

Most options will be supplied by the controller. You can pass an associative
array with the options to the view:

..  tabs::

    ..  group-tab:: Fluid

        ..  literalinclude:: _codesnippets/_SelectPayment.html
            :caption: packages/my_extension/Resources/Private/Templates/User/PaymentForm.html

    ..  group-tab:: Controller

        The argument for the select field will have the key of the chosen entry as value.

        ..  literalinclude:: _codesnippets/_SelectPayment.php
            :caption: packages/my_extension/Classes/Controller/UserController.php

> To pre select a value, use the argument

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To pre-select a value, use the argument
```

:ref:`value <t3viewhelper:viewhelper-argument-typo3-cms-fluid-viewhelpers-form-selectviewhelper-value>`.

..  _typo3-fluid-form-select-usage-models:

Select field for selecting (persisted) models
=============================================

Consider we have the payment options from the previous example in the database
and in an Extbase model:

..  tabs::

    ..  group-tab:: Model

        ..  literalinclude:: _codesnippets/_SelectPaymentMethod.php
            :caption: packages/my_extension/Classes/Domain/Model/PaymentMethod.php

    ..  group-tab:: Controller

>         In the controller we can get all payment methods from the from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        In the controller we can get all payment methods from the
```

        `Repository <https://docs.typo3.org/permalink/t3coreapi:extbase-repository>`_
        now and pass it to the view as variable:

        ..  literalinclude:: _codesnippets/_SelectPaymentModelController.php
            :caption: packages/my_extension/Classes/Controller/UserController.php

    ..  group-tab:: Fluid

        The Fluid template can be left unchanged even though we are dealing with a
        different data source:

        ..  literalinclude:: _codesnippets/_SelectPayment.html
            :caption: packages/my_extension/Resources/Private/Templates/User/PaymentForm.html

When the form gets submitted, the UID of the chosen model appears in the request
data. Extbase will then map that uid back to the model for you.

> The ViewHelper will then use the models UID as data submitted in the from and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ViewHelper will then use the model's UID as data submitted in the from and
```

> The ViewHelper will then use the models UID as data submitted in the from and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ViewHelper will then use the model's UID as data submitted in the form and
```

> The ViewHelper will then use the models UID as data submitted in the from and

Author: ```suggestion
The ViewHelper will then use the models UID as data submitted in the formand
```

    the :ref:`options <t3viewhelper:viewhelper-argument-typo3-cms-fluid-viewhelpers-form-selectviewhelper-options>`
    argument. This includes the result of `findBy()` methods on
    `Extbase repositories <https://docs.typo3.org/permalink/t3coreapi:extbase-repository>`_,
    :php-short:`\TYPO3\CMS\Extbase\Persistence\QueryResultInterface` and objects
    stored as relation in another object as
    :php-short:`\TYPO3\CMS\Extbase\Persistence\ObjectStorage`.

..  _typo3-fluid-form-select-usage-models-optionLabelField:

optionLabelField: Define another property of the model for the option label
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the model to be displayed has no :php:`__toString()` method or you want to
display the content of a different field, use option
:ref:`optionLabelField <t3viewhelper:viewhelper-argument-typo3-cms-fluid-viewhelpers-form-selectviewhelper-optionlabelfield>`

..  code-block:: html

    <f:form.select name="payment" value="{myPayment}"
        options="{paymentOptions}" optionLabelField="someLabel"/>

The :ref:`options <t3viewhelper:viewhelper-argument-typo3-cms-fluid-viewhelpers-form-selectviewhelper-options>`

> may contain an array or anything else Traversable including

Reviewer: ```suggestion
may contain an array or anything else `Traversable` including
```

..  _typo3-fluid-form-select-usage-models-optionValueField:

optionValueField: Define another property of the model as value
---------------------------------------------------------------

> If you are dealing with non-persisted models or Data-Transfer-Objects there is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are dealing with non-persisted models or Data-Transfer-Objects (DTO) there is
```

> no valid identifier that could be used to automatically map the users selection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
no valid identifier that could be used to automatically map the user's selection
```

> in your controller. In this case you must provide the name of the field to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in your controller. In this case, you must provide the name of the field to
```

      <f:form.select.option value="2" selected="1">Option two</f:form.select.option>
    </f:form.select>

..  note::
    Do not use HTML :html:`<option>` tags!
    They will invalidate the HMAC generation!

..  _typo3-fluid-form-select-optgroup:

Form.select.optgroup ViewHelper `<f:form.select.optgroup>`
----------------------------------------------------------

..  typo3:viewhelper:: form.select.optgroup
    :source: /Global.json
    :display: tags,description,gitHubLink
    :noindex:

The `<f:form.select.option>` can be grouped with the `<f:form.select.optgroup>`
to produce :html:`<optgroup>` in the HTML output.

..  code-block:: html

    <f:form.select name="myproperty">
       <f:form.select.option value="1">Option one</f:form.select.option>
       <f:form.select.option value="2">Option two</f:form.select.option>
       <f:form.select.optgroup>
          <f:form.select.option value="3">Grouped option one</f:form.select.option>
          <f:form.select.option value="4">Grouped option twi</f:form.select.option>
       </f:form.select.optgroup>
    </f:form.select>

..  _typo3-fluid-form-select-option-placeholder:

> Please select option placeholder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using an "Please select an option" placeholder
```

================================

> In HTML the :html:`<select>` element always selects the first option if nothing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In HTML, the :html:`<select>` element always selects the first option, if nothing
```

else is selected. If the field is mandatory and the user should be forced to
make a selection or if an empty value should be possible, you need an empty

> option as first option. You can use argument

Reviewer: ```suggestion
option as first option. You can use the argument
```
